README.md, before:

# Python Bank System

This project is a simulation of a simple bank system, built using Python and object-oriented programming principles. It includes realistic business rules like savings account interest, overdraft limits, transaction history, and a credit score system that influences the user's available overdraft.

## Features

- Open and manage accounts (`SavingsAccount`, `CheckingAccount`)
- Deposit and withdraw funds with input validation
- Transaction history tracking
- Monthly interest applied to savings accounts
- Credit score increases based on deposit behavior
- Automatic overdraft limit increase based on credit score
- A single client can have multiple accounts (composition)

## Class Structure

- `Account`: Base class containing balance management, deposit, withdraw, and transaction log.
- `SavingsAccount`: Inherits from `Account`, includes withdrawal limits and interest calculation.
- `CheckingAccount`: Inherits from `Account`, allows overdraft and includes a credit score system that can increase the overdraft limit.
- `Client`: Represents a customer who can hold multiple bank accounts.

## Example Usage

```python
client = Client("Ana", "12345678900")
checking = CheckingAccount("0001", 1000)
savings = SavingsAccount("0002", 5000)

client.add_account(checking)
client.add_account(savings)

checking.deposit(1000)
checking.withdraw(400)

savings.apply_interest()

client.get_all_balances()
client.get_all_transactions()
```

## Educational Purpose

This project was developed as part of my Python learning journey, with the goal of improving my understanding of:

- Object-oriented programming
- Modeling real-world systems
- Clean and Pythonic code organization

## File Structure

```
bank_account.py    # Main code with class definitions
README.md          # Project description and usage instructions
```

## Next Steps (future improvements)

- Add JSON-based data persistence (saving/loading accounts)
- Implement terminal menu interface
- Add automated tests using `unittest` or `pytest`
- Build a simple graphical interface with `tkinter` or `PyQt`

Commit message:

Took the example usage from main code Rewrote the README file

README.md, after:

# Python Bank System

This project is a simulation of a simple bank system, built using Python and object-oriented programming principles. It includes realistic business rules like savings account interest, overdraft limits, transaction history, and a credit score system that influences the user's available overdraft.

## Features

- Open and manage accounts (`SavingsAccount`, `CheckingAccount`)
- Deposit and withdraw funds with input validation
- Transaction history tracking
- Monthly interest applied to savings accounts
- Credit score increases based on deposit behavior
- Automatic overdraft limit increase based on credit score
- A single client can have multiple accounts (composition)

## Class Structure

- `Account`: Base class containing balance management, deposit, withdraw, and transaction log.
- `SavingsAccount`: Inherits from `Account`, includes withdrawal limits and interest calculation.
- `CheckingAccount`: Inherits from `Account`, allows overdraft and includes a credit score system that can increase the overdraft limit.
- `Client`: Represents a customer who can hold multiple bank accounts.

## Example Usage

```python
client = Client("Ana", "12345678900")
checking = CheckingAccount("0001", 1000)
savings = SavingsAccount("0002", 5000)

client.add_account(checking)
client.add_account(savings)

checking.deposit(1000)
checking.withdraw(400)

savings.apply_interest()

client.get_all_balances()
client.get_all_transactions()
```

## Educational Purpose

This project was developed as part of my Python learning journey, with the goal of improving my understanding of:

- Object-oriented programming
- Modeling real-world systems
- Clean and Pythonic code organization

## File Structure

```
bank_account.py    # Main code with class definitions
README.md          # Project description and usage instructions
```

## Next Steps (future improvements)

- Add JSON-based data persistence (saving/loading accounts).
- Implement terminal menu interface.
- Add automated tests.
- Build a simple graphical interface.


## Notes on Development

This project was developed by me as part of my learning process in Python, with support from AI tools like ChatGPT. All design decisions, testing, and code understanding were reviewed and controlled by me.

The AI acted as a coding assistant — similar to how one might use documentation, tutorials, or Stack Overflow — helping with:
- Refining syntax and logic
- Debugging edge cases
- Providing examples and explanations when needed

Estimated contribution:  
- 90% of code written directly by me  
- 10% suggestions, reviews, or improvements guided by AI assistance
